docs/reference/configuration.md, before:

# Configuration

## CopilotAgent Fields

| Field | Type | Default | Description |
|-------|------|---------|-------------|
| `name` | `str` | `"copilot"` | Agent identifier for reports |
| `model` | `str \| None` | `None` | Model to use (e.g., `claude-sonnet-4`) |
| `instructions` | `str \| None` | `None` | System prompt / instructions |
| `working_directory` | `str \| None` | `None` | Working directory for file operations |
| `max_turns` | `int` | `25` | Maximum conversation turns |
| `timeout_s` | `float` | `120.0` | Timeout in seconds |
| `auto_confirm` | `bool` | `True` | Auto-approve tool permissions |
| `reasoning_effort` | `str \| None` | `None` | Reasoning effort (`low`, `medium`, `high`, `xhigh`) |
| `allowed_tools` | `list[str] \| None` | `None` | Allowlist of tools |
| `excluded_tools` | `list[str] \| None` | `None` | Blocklist of tools |
| `mcp_servers` | `dict` | `{}` | MCP server configurations |
| `custom_agents` | `list[dict]` | `[]` | Custom agent configurations |
| `skill_directories` | `list[str]` | `[]` | Paths to skill directories |
| `disabled_skills` | `list[str]` | `[]` | Skills to disable |
| `extra_config` | `dict` | `{}` | SDK passthrough for unmapped fields |

## Authentication

Authentication is resolved in order:

1. `GITHUB_TOKEN` environment variable (ideal for CI)
2. Logged-in user via `gh` CLI / OAuth (local development)

## pytest Configuration

Add to `pyproject.toml`:

```toml
[tool.pytest.ini_options]
asyncio_mode = "auto"
markers = [
    "copilot: marks tests as requiring GitHub Copilot SDK credentials",
]
```

Commit message:

docs: align documentation with implementation
- Fix CopilotResult fields table (usage not token_usage, cost_usd is property)
- Fix Turn fields (remove phantom reasoning field)
- Fix ToolCall fields (add error, duration_ms, tool_call_id; fix arguments type)
- Fix UsageInfo fields (add cache_read_tokens, cost_usd, duration_ms)
- Fix SubagentInvocation fields (name/status/duration_ms, not agent_name/prompt/result)
- Add system_message_mode to configuration reference
- Add prompts/ directory to contributing project structure
- Update hooks section to describe dynamic pricing
- Update aitest integration doc with dynamic pricing bullet

docs/reference/configuration.md, after:

# Configuration

## CopilotAgent Fields

| Field | Type | Default | Description |
|-------|------|---------|-------------|
| `name` | `str` | `"copilot"` | Agent identifier for reports |
| `model` | `str \| None` | `None` | Model to use (e.g., `claude-sonnet-4`) |
| `instructions` | `str \| None` | `None` | System prompt / instructions |
| `system_message_mode` | `Literal["append", "replace"]` | `"append"` | `"append"` adds to Copilot's built-in system message; `"replace"` overrides it |
| `working_directory` | `str \| None` | `None` | Working directory for file operations |
| `max_turns` | `int` | `25` | Maximum conversation turns |
| `timeout_s` | `float` | `120.0` | Timeout in seconds |
| `auto_confirm` | `bool` | `True` | Auto-approve tool permissions |
| `reasoning_effort` | `str \| None` | `None` | Reasoning effort (`low`, `medium`, `high`, `xhigh`) |
| `allowed_tools` | `list[str] \| None` | `None` | Allowlist of tools |
| `excluded_tools` | `list[str] \| None` | `None` | Blocklist of tools |
| `mcp_servers` | `dict` | `{}` | MCP server configurations |
| `custom_agents` | `list[dict]` | `[]` | Custom agent configurations |
| `skill_directories` | `list[str]` | `[]` | Paths to skill directories |
| `disabled_skills` | `list[str]` | `[]` | Skills to disable |
| `extra_config` | `dict` | `{}` | SDK passthrough for unmapped fields |

## Authentication

Authentication is resolved in order:

1. `GITHUB_TOKEN` environment variable (ideal for CI)
2. Logged-in user via `gh` CLI / OAuth (local development)

## pytest Configuration

Add to `pyproject.toml`:

```toml
[tool.pytest.ini_options]
asyncio_mode = "auto"
markers = [
    "copilot: marks tests as requiring GitHub Copilot SDK credentials",
]
```
